README.md, before:


# Cx - A C-to-C Translator and Useful Functions/Classes/Tools

This is a library that I use to make ANSI C / C++ programming easier.
Many research tools and domain-specific languages build upon ANSI C or a subset of it, so it's not an entirely useless exercise to stick to that standard.
You will need to put the repository of preprocessed files (https://github.com/grencez/cx-pp) in `../cx-pp` in order to build this.
Building is easy though, just typing `make` from the top-level directory will perform the following steps:
``` sh
mkdir -p bld
cd bld
cmake ../src
make
```

From the top-level directory, translate C code by:
```
./bin/cx -x in.c -o out.c
```

## Miscellaneous

Besides the C-to-C translator, there are some miscellaneous things that loosely fit with the idea of a useful library.

* **Standalone** tool that helps embed file contents in C code.
 * [file2array.c](src/file2array.c)
 * For example, run `file2array -o shaders.h phong.vert phong.frag diffuse.vert diffuse.frag` and then include shaders.h within function.
* MPI dissemination scheme using Kautz graphs.
 * [mpidissem.cc](src/mpidissem.cc) and [mpidissem.hh](src/mpidissem.hh)
* LaTeX macros and preamble.
 * [predef.tex](doc/predef.tex) and [preamble.tex](doc/preamble.tex)

## Translations

The primary reason this tool exists is to write for-loops in a reasonable way while retaining ANSI compliance.
It will also strip comments.
The first (common) and second (specialized) loop versions shown below are translated to the third (ANSI-compliant) version.
Great care is taken to preserve line numbers since a debugger will show the translated code.
```
for (unsigned int i = 0; i < n; ++i) {
  // Compute!
}
for (i ; n) {
  // Compute!
}
{unsigned int i; for (i = 0; i < n; ++i) {

}}
```

Braces are also allowed to come before `for`, `while`, `do`, `if`, `else`, and `switch` keywords if the brace is written as `{:`.
For example, the following code is equivalent to the above loops.
```
{:for (i ; n)
  // Compute!
}
```

To avoid warnings for pragmas, `cx` can strip them if run with `-no-pragma`.
For example, the following command removes OpenMP pragmas:
``` sh
cx -no-pragma omp -x in.c -o out.c
```

For convenience, C++ code is supported too via the `-c++` flag.
No fancy source translations occur in C++ mode, just pragma removal:
``` sh
cx -c++ -no-pragma omp -x in.cc -o out.cc
```

Commit message:

Add -no-quote-includes flag to cx tool
However, I went and cleaned up some file parsing functions that operate
in a very particular way to allow XFiles overlayed using olay_XFile()
instead of the proper olay_txt_XFile() overlayed XFiles.
These cases of misuse will be caught with assertion failures now.

1. Most changes for -no-quote-includes in one function.
  c. cx.c  check_delet_directive()

2. Make some parsing functions more strict and documented.
  c. xfile.c  tods_XFile() nextds_XFile() olay_txt_XFile()

README.md, after:


# Cx - A C-to-C Translator and Useful Functions/Classes/Tools

This is a library that I use to make ANSI C / C++ programming easier.
Many research tools and domain-specific languages build upon ANSI C or a subset of it, so it's not an entirely useless exercise to stick to that standard.
You will need to put the repository of preprocessed files (https://github.com/grencez/cx-pp) in `../cx-pp` in order to build this.
Building is easy though, just typing `make` from the top-level directory will perform the following steps:
```
mkdir -p bld
cd bld
cmake ../src
make
```

From the top-level directory, translate C code by:
```
./bin/cx -x in.c -o out.c
```

## Miscellaneous

Besides the C-to-C translator, there are some miscellaneous things that loosely fit with the idea of a useful library.

* **Standalone** tool that helps embed file contents in C code.
 * [file2array.c](src/file2array.c)
 * Example: `file2array -o shaders.h phong.vert phong.frag diffuse.vert diffuse.frag` and then include shaders.h within a function.
* MPI dissemination scheme using Kautz graphs.
 * [mpidissem.cc](src/mpidissem.cc) and [mpidissem.hh](src/mpidissem.hh)
* LaTeX macros and preamble.
 * [predef.tex](doc/predef.tex) and [preamble.tex](doc/preamble.tex)

## Translations

The primary reason this tool exists is to write for-loops in a reasonable way while retaining ANSI compliance.
It will also strip comments.
The first (common) and second (specialized) loop versions shown below are translated to the third (ANSI-compliant) version.
Great care is taken to preserve line numbers since a debugger will show the translated code.
```
for (unsigned int i = 0; i < n; ++i) {
  // Compute!
}
for (i ; n) {
  // Compute!
}
{unsigned int i; for (i = 0; i < n; ++i) {

}}
```

Braces are also allowed to come before `for`, `while`, `do`, `if`, `else`, and `switch` keywords if the brace is written as `{:`.
For example, the following code is equivalent to the above loops.
```
{:for (i ; n)
  // Compute!
}
```

To avoid warnings for pragmas, `cx` can strip them if run with `-no-pragma`.
For example, the following command removes OpenMP pragmas:
```
cx -no-pragma omp -x in.c -o out.c
```
To strip all quoted includes, run:
```
cx -no-quote-includes -x in.c -o out.c
```

For convenience, C++/other code is supported via the `-c++` or `-shallow` flag.
No fancy source translations occur in this mode, just optional pragma and include.
